Add data and privacy doc for WV2 (#2575)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/data_privacy.md

Reviewer: @maurawinstanley - pls update this PR from upstream/main branch eg to get new section h2 anchor:
[Security and privacy](../concepts/overview-features-apis.md#security-and-privacy) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?tabs=dotnetcsharp#security-and-privacy

Reviewer: rename from 
data_privacy.md
to
data-privacy.md
per Docs Contributor Guide > Filenaming

Update toc.yml

---

> title: Data & Privacy in WebView2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Data and privacy in WebView2
```

> description: Overview of WebView2 Data Collection and Practices. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: WebView2 data collection and practices, privacy, and the 'Send optional diagnostic data' toggle.
```
probably add such keywords

author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/03/2023
---

> # Data & Privacy in WebView2 

Reviewer: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/a/ampersand -- "Don't use _&_ in place of _and_ in text or headings unless you're referring to the use of the symbol in UI."

If change title, change list of usual places:
* title: YAML metadata line 2.
* h1 line 11
* toc.yml
* Other pages that link to here.

> # Data & Privacy in WebView2 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Data and privacy in WebView2
```

> ## Background

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
top of article has implicit heading "Intro" like "Background"

> The WebView2 team tracks data to help understand and prioritize our customers' requirements, diagnose and debug issues, and overall improve WebView2 as a product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WebView2 team tracks data to help understand and prioritize developers' requirements, diagnose and debug issues, and improve WebView2.
```

Author: I will change customers to developers. I'm thinking to leave out the line intending this for WebView2 developers if devs want to share this with their end-users but will be more clear.

> Developers consent to this data collection in the WebView2 Runtime Terms and Conditions License, or in the Windows license. Additionally, we follow the standards outlined in the [Microsoft Edge Privacy Whitepaper](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/privacy-whitepaper/).

Author: @liminzhu the addition of "or in the Windows license" was in the original doc that Jason had started, do we still need this part or is referencing the WebView2 license sufficient?

> Developers consent to this data collection in the WebView2 Runtime Terms and Conditions License, or in the Windows license. Additionally, we follow the standards outlined in the [Microsoft Edge Privacy Whitepaper](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/privacy-whitepaper/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers consent to this data collection in the WebView2 Runtime Terms and Conditions License, or in the Windows license. Additionally, WebView2 follows the standards outlined in the [Microsoft Edge Privacy Whitepaper](../../privacy-whitepaper/index.md).
```

> In general, all of our data collection goes through the same strict standards as Microsoft Edge. The main telemetry sources are Chromium and Edge telemetry infrastructure, Windows data reporting, and Watson (Microsoft Internal) infrastructure to collect crash dumps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, WebView2 data collection goes through the same strict standards as Microsoft Edge. The main telemetry sources are Chromium and Microsoft Edge telemetry infrastructure, Windows data reporting, and Watson (Microsoft Internal) infrastructure to collect crash dumps.
```

> With any data the WebView2 team collects, we comply/conform with the laws and regulations about best privacy practices, and have guardrails to protect against privacy issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any WebView2 data collection complies and conforms with the laws and regulations about best privacy practices, and WebView2 has guardrails to protect against privacy issues.
```

> ## Optional Diagnostic Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Optional diagnostic data
```

> WebView2 and Edge respect the Windows Optional Diagnostic Data toggle, so end users have control over any optional data WebView2 collects. This toggle can only be modified by the end user. The only mandatory data that is collected is the [required events](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/privacy/required-windows-11-diagnostic-events-and-fields) which are required from any app running on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebView2 and Microsoft Edge respect the Windows Optional Diagnostic Data toggle, so end users have control over any optional data WebView2 collects. This toggle can only be modified by the end user. The only mandatory data that is collected is the [required events](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/privacy/required-windows-11-diagnostic-events-and-fields) which are required from any app running on Windows.
```
i've seen differing guidelines but the policy for this repo is never say Edge without Microsoft.

Author: Resolving this comment as this paragraph is going to be removed. @mikehoffms do you know the filepath to get to this doc - https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/diagnostics-feedback-and-privacy-in-windows-28808a2b-a31b-dd73-dcd3-4559a5199319.

> WebView2 is considered a Windows component, and the data collection consent is governed by Windows Diagnostic data setting on Windows 10 & 11 as a centralized switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebView2 is considered a Windows component, and the data collection consent is governed by Windows Diagnostic data setting on Windows 10 & 11 as a centralized switch.
```
Global: change & to and unless there's a special reason eg UI or name officially includes &

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/a/ampersand -- "Don't use & in place of and in text or headings unless you're referring to the use of the symbol in UI."

> End users are empowered to control the data collection of WebView2 and can do so via toggling the Windows Diagnostic data setting on Windows 10 & 11. On Windows 7/8.1, given there is no Windows Diagnostic data setting, we treat this as no consent for optional data and thus optional diagnostic data is not collected. There is very limited required data that the OS always collects, unless you're on some specific SKUs. Developers are welcome to convey this to their end users and ask them to use the Windows Diagnostic data setting to fit the end user’s preference.

Author: @liminzhu the specific SKUs part was in the original doc but I haven't found any context with additional required data collected for specific SKUs - is this something we still want in/is there somewhere I can look into adding more info for this?

> Developers currently have no control over this Windows Diagnostic data setting, similar to the Windows APIs developers use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers currently have no control over this **Windows Diagnostic data** setting, similar to the Windows APIs developers use.
```
where can i see this setting, i might look for it to check that there's a UI control or label, **Windows Diagnostic data**.  Global: bold (or do not bold) that phrase.

> 

Reviewer: maybe add screenshot, could help wording in article.  Is this what this article means by "the **Windows Diagnostic data** setting"?

like:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45407486/236305737-8fc3c98b-cb6f-4c4e-88a2-87cd242d3808.png)

Author: I'm going to change the wording to **Diagnostic data** setting - this is what I see in this article - https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/diagnostics-feedback-and-privacy-in-windows-28808a2b-a31b-dd73-dcd3-4559a5199319.

Author: Also, the diagnostic data setting looks different on different platforms so I will update the first reference to Settings > Privacy & security > Diagnostics & feedback > Diagnostic data

Reviewer: The above screenshot shows which Windows setting/control I think we're discussing in-depth.  Per industry Docs conventions, it would be good to provide the specific UI control label on Windows and each platform and not leave that to guessing and leave it implicit.  Can we give the specific UI control name on each platform?  Because the article focuses on the specific setting, so we should accurately identify which specific setting we're discussing in-depth.

Author: When you say specific UI control name, does that mean the full path to that setting? Also, does this mean needing to add the screenshot of the setting?

Reviewer: maybe this comment thread can be Resolved

Reviewer: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/diagnostics-feedback-and-privacy-in-windows-28808a2b-a31b-dd73-dcd3-4559a5199319
never names the control, it just says "the option":  
![image](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/assets/45407486/d09d943b-5a58-4938-b37c-745b786c01ff)

Author: Ok, I will keep this as is and resolve this comment, feel free to re-open thread.

> When the Windows Diagnostic data setting is enabled, WebView2 related data including API usage, SDK usage, and creation failure is collected. When this setting is enabled, browser diagnostic data will be collected; however, personalization data will not be collected. Only browser events that are relevant to WebView2 will be collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Windows **Send optional diagnostic data** toggle is turned on, WebView2-related data including API usage, SDK usage, and creation failure is collected. When this setting is enabled, browser diagnostic data is collected; however, personalization data is not collected. Only browser events that are relevant to WebView2 are collected.
```

> There are two APIs that exist to give customers more control over data collection: [Disable SmartScreen](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/specs/IsSmartScreenRequired.md) and [Custom Crash Reports](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/specs/DisableCrashReporting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two APIs that exist to give customers more control over data collection: [Disable SmartScreen](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/specs/IsSmartScreenRequired.md) and [Custom Crash Reports](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/specs/DisableCrashReporting.md). See [Security and privacy](../concepts/overview-features-apis.md#security-and-privacy) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.
```
i think this PR needs to be updated from upstream/main to see that new or renamed h2 section / anchor

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
```
repo convention for source file readability

## SmartScreen

> Microsoft Defender SmartScreen ("SmartScreen") is enabled by default. If you do not disable SmartScreen, you must provide notice to all users that your software includes Microsoft Defender SmartScreen and collects and sends the end user’s information to Microsoft as disclosed in [Microsoft’s Privacy Statement](https://aka.ms/privacy) and the [Microsoft Edge Privacy Whitepaper](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/privacy-whitepaper#smartscreen). All other services in **edge://settings/privacy** are turned off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft Defender SmartScreen ("SmartScreen") is enabled by default. If you don't disable SmartScreen, you must provide notice to all users that your software includes Microsoft Defender SmartScreen and collects and sends the end user’s information to Microsoft as disclosed in [Microsoft’s Privacy Statement](https://aka.ms/privacy) and the [Microsoft Edge Privacy Whitepaper](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/privacy-whitepaper#smartscreen). All other services in **edge://settings/privacy** are turned off.
```
contraction per brand voice except where emphasis by separate words is needed

I'll change path to local path in VS Code as paste that change here...

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/privacy-whitepaper#smartscreen

---

> title: Data and Privacy in WebView2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Data and privacy in WebView2
```
per corp style guides, use sentence case for titles/headings.  Unless you want "Privacy" as a special exception like What's New or Release Notes.

description: WebView2 data collection and practices, privacy, and the 'Diagnostic data' setting.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/03/2023
---

> # Data and Privacy in WebView2 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Data and privacy in WebView2
```
* trailing space trim
* per corp style guides, use sentence case for titles/headings.  Unless you want "Privacy" as a special exception like What's New or Release Notes.

When the Windows **Diagnostic data** setting is turned **On**, WebView2-related data including API usage, SDK usage, and creation failure is collected. When this setting is **On**, browser diagnostic data is collected; however, personalization data is not collected. Only browser events that are relevant to WebView2 are collected. Regardless of the Windows **Diagnostic data** setting, WebView2 collects [Required data](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/diagnostics-feedback-and-privacy-in-windows-28808a2b-a31b-dd73-dcd3-4559a5199319) which is necessary to maintain performance and reliability.

There are two APIs that exist to give developers more control over data collection: [Disable SmartScreen](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/specs/IsSmartScreenRequired.md) and [Custom Crash Reports](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/specs/DisableCrashReporting.md). See [Security and privacy](../concepts/overview-features-apis.md#security-and-privacy) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## SmartScreen

> Microsoft Defender SmartScreen ("SmartScreen") is enabled by default. If you don't disable SmartScreen, you must provide notice to all users that your software includes Microsoft Defender SmartScreen and collects and sends the end user's information to Microsoft as disclosed in [Microsoft Privacy Statement](https://aka.ms/privacy) and the [Microsoft Edge Privacy Whitepaper](../../privacy-whitepaper/index.md#smartscreen). All other services in `edge://settings/privacy` should be turned off.

Author: By design things should be off, but there could be bugs that result in them not so want to leave some room and not state as factual.

> Microsoft Defender SmartScreen ("SmartScreen") is enabled by default. If you don't disable SmartScreen, you must provide notice to all users that your software includes Microsoft Defender SmartScreen and collects and sends the end user's information to Microsoft as disclosed in [Microsoft Privacy Statement](https://aka.ms/privacy) and the [Microsoft Edge Privacy Whitepaper](../../privacy-whitepaper/index.md#smartscreen). All other services in `edge://settings/privacy` should be turned off.

Reviewer: alts:
Generally, when Microsoft Defender SmartScreen ("SmartScreen") is enabled, other services in `edge://settings/privacy` are turned off, because XYZ.
